welcome to like EFS weekly call for the
24th of February 2020 yeah
time flies so this week we got lightning
talks I will quickly paste link to to
meeting notes on the zoom shot please
add yourself to attendees lists and if
you've got a lightning talk you can
probably have it some space at the end
we got some talks already but if you
have something that you can squeeze
under like five minutes please feel free
to add to the list can I have a note
taker whoever will blink first
thank you Dietrich for volunteering
awesome
all right I think admin is done from my
end
Molly do you have any like love quick
announcements my head give me an
exciting week welcome back everybody
good seeing you again cool all right I
guess Molly do you want to start with
your demos
sounds good which one did I put first
audiosurf decentraland oh okay cool well
then let's let's do two central and
since I happen to be I've prepared my
demos all right Green do so yeah I spent
a little bit of time this weekend
exploring the new decentralized
Metaverse and one of those things was
was going and figuring out what what you
can do in decentraland
so I have a little little avatar human
and they can wander around this the
central world mostly by pressing W W
means you walk forward
and there's all this stuff which has all
been created by different humans a lot
of which you can look at and wonder what
it does sometimes there's little plaques
I'm sorry it's kind of jittery
probably cuz I'm running both both zoom
and decentraland at the same time it
will make your computer very warm cool
there's something about aetherium with
plasma and something you can type go to
next in the chat window okay cool umm go
and wander around in here there's like
lasers and creatures and other fun and
games battle racers you guys probably
can't hear this but it is now play
localized theme music in my headphones
so like when you wander on the space
where the music is playing changes
according to your headphones which is
pretty fun um yeah and surprisingly easy
to get set up you need to install meta
mask but other than that you don't
actually have to load in crypto unless
you want to save your your username or
anything like that and every now and
then I don't have an example in here I
don't think but there's something that
you can interact with and then you can
just click on it and it maybe maybe it
does something so yeah so central in
thermo we should all go hang out you do
see other people's avatars and so we can
literally use this for a digital virtual
Meetup so you know
chicken dance so those are those are the
ways we might be able to use it so far
continuing to investigate how we might
use it for for ipfs meetups in oil all
right no and then what I want it exit I
press return Knicks demo adios sorry
listening more questions on the chat oh
okay
questions about lightning talks is it VR
or just scream um I have just been using
it on on computer and mobile it does
work on a mobile webpage which was
surprising to me I have not tried to
hook it up to a headset so far I bet
they have support for assets and things
like that but I think probably starting
with the webpage model was easiest have
you encountered baby Yoda
I have not if he exists in here I've
there is kind of usefully you can like
just is it Easton throw and map they
have like somewhere in here they
definitely do have like maps
it's decentralized map where you can
then like click on them I think this
thing and you can then teleport to
specific locations based on clicking on
the map so if you want to find something
in particular you can use use these maps
to go and find a particular thing which
is useful so like raft ride too much
Acer Space Station and then it'll
teleport you to the right part of the
central and login there cool any other
second life flashbacks yeah I think I
think along those lines Richard
well that was my very shrewd essentially
demo the other one is audience which is
super cool which is not my music player
of choice mostly I just keep listening
to the same pop mix of into the unknown
from frozen to just over and over and
over and over again but when wandering
around Brooklyn and seemingly I have
terrible service anywhere in New York
audience was loading for me one spot if
I wasn't which was very exciting but I
guess we can if I play this you guys
won't be able to hear it
quite exciting and I find I guess I
probably could just go in here but this
is this is my new favorite pop mix which
has idina menzel and Aurora where that
is
maybe it's the Aurora and now I'm
playing very loud pop music to myself
anyways but you can I guess reposted you
can favorite it and you can even remix
it and then create your own remix and
add it to audience and do all this cool
stuff so umm do you recommend it as a
way to explore especially if you're into
like lo-fi like electronic music there's
a ton of stuff on here from like
original creators who are doing
fascinating mashups and the pop mix is
kind of where I'm I'm hanging out for
now but hey for I give us powered tools
and other fun stuff is that JSI PFS
oh boy um how is audio setup
I'm not certain it's definitely not
running
I'm not running desktop at the moment
because my desktop keeps crashing me it
for more information you can watch a
previous
ipfs weekly where they talk about their
architecture almost about link in the
notes then we'll leave it as it I think
it's a mixed all day there's three do
some alrighty those are my demos Thank
You Marie
it's awesome and if someone like missed
others has both web and mobile versions
so it's an mobile version speed really
really slick and nice them make sure to
check it out Thank You Molly quickly
throwing Mike back to Hugo - tell us
about play write tests quick demo to go
okay we're gonna be faster than last
time
hopefully I've learned some lessons so
yeah a new runner for browser tests I've
been trying to do this stuff for a long
time and now finally in the last couple
weeks I was I managed to prototype
something and it's really pretty well
basically I'm maintaining the the ipfs
still shine at least for Jess so this is
where that comes from
here does a bunch of things the bills
liens tests releases everything but it
needs some browser love and specifically
because we are trying to focus more in
the browser to use case and for the test
we were using karma which has a twerks
but it has some issues so I needed
something better with some new tools
that came up and most specifically I
wanted to give the quality
the contributors and seem experience
they have from running stuffing nodejs
by Corona mocha or any other test runner
I wanted to give them the same
experience in a browser running that
same stuff in a router so from those
objectives playwright test came out and
I'm gonna change here so I can show you
some examples so basically this works as
any other Runner you basically give it
the the tests this one is the default
one is basically defaults to running
used in mocha and it's a simple set set
up the browser one of the test sends it
to the browser and the output comes out
and as you can see there's something
wrong here and I will explain shortly so
we have different ways to run the the
tests in the browser we can just give it
the debug five this is basically keeps
the browser open
open the dev tools you can see stuff
here you can work with debug inside the
dev tools you can also you may want to
run your tests inside a worker instead
of the main track and you can do that
you just set it mode equal to worker or
you can also you may want to run your
tests inside incognito in an incognito
window and you can also do that and this
is a new feature that we couldn't do
with karma so that's some value here and
another interesting thing is you can run
it inside an extension environment which
is pretty cool so we can test like a
companion and stuff like that
and yet as you see that error was
basically saying that the variable
chrome isn't was not available and now
that I ran inside the extension
environment the chrome variable is
already defined with all this stuff
that's basically because these are from
specific API so I don't even inside an
extension so basically I just prove that
it actually will run inside the
environment of an extension
another interesting interesting thing
that was pretty troublesome to do was to
run benchmarks basically the only
library that we use for mesh marks in
Jas land is which much yes which is a
pretty old thing but it's free stable
everyone uses it but to be used inside
of a browser it's pretty troublesome to
set up but now you can just use mocks
right here say that the run is benchmark
and everything is done for you and you
just get your output state away in the
terminal it takes a little bit because
it's running in some iterations of the
of the suits and yet it's pretty pretty
straightforward if you want to see an
example of what I just ran it's
basically this which is basically
exactly the same API as benchmark yes I
just a little wrapper around it just so
I know when the mesh mark ends but
everything else is exactly as you do in
node one more one last thing is the
extra stuff sometimes you want to run
[Music]
something before your tests like for our
use case would be something like testing
the WebRTC direct from limb p2p you want
to set up one tab with one TC direct and
we want you to connect to another table
right now we were what we would do
we would set up something in nolde then
we would run in a browser and connect to
nose but that's not sometimes it's not
the the environment we want we actually
want two tabs connect to each other and
we couldn't do that until now but now we
can actually do it and we show you
I'm gonna run not this one serves or any
other benchmarks so if you run it you
get an error
you
but trust me it works and do something
wrong today I'm not seeing right now oh
yeah I think that's mostly it let me see
if and didn't forget anything you can
run it in all three browsers main
browsers right right now and there's one
mole that I'm going to add in the future
which is basically this the
serviceworker mode so we would have main
thread worker and serviceworker and yeah
I think that's it
and when runner that will probably exist
in the near future would be a runner so
we can integrate all these in test
ground and run test plans for J's stuff
yeah that's it can't wait for support of
extensions in Firefox
that's right now it's just chrome only
but it's still very useful to be able to
run tests in actual runtime instead of
like pretending it's yeah I just checked
with the playwright guys it's on the b1
roadmap and also I'm getting back the
auto opening of the dev tools for web
extensions it's also in the in the
roadmap so you're gonna get all that
stuff so hopefully I can only hope go
ready all right guys unless there are
any questions to Hugo I go with the next
demo yes hello guys okay so everybody
can see my screen okay yes excellent
so what angle is shown here is a tool
that you cannot get from anywhere or
another installment somewhere in a
Monday in the middle of March we'll
announce this separately register will
be shipped proper but basically what
this about so
let's say we have a lot of ideas latest
trees we see a deck impressive amplified
into regular I business this should be
everybody we get hush now we actually
need to work with the newer hashes of
CATV one so we're going to say up great
city is your main output which will give
us give us yes
which will give us the cash under which
this basically is the same stadium is
repairs but represent is based are to do
now people do the same very same thing
with this route and give it the ipfs
command that we just used which is
additive now we get the same has 7w6
also this completely conversion with two
ideas itself reduce your turn of
interesting about so it tells you how
big the simmons-howe biggest actual
death that it is forming this also
logical deck without any identification
it tells you how many data blocks it has
how many links it yes how much this is
how much bigger or smaller it is from
step did you type in and it also gives
you a breakdown of the three so L 0 is
the bottom most so those are the leaf
nodes and the 5% I let that be the
personal detective so you basically have
a very good fuel of how your data lays
people I did now there are more things
that you can believe that
so here is what is my data I give as
directory they're actually three
versions of I here is available now if
we go ahead and take all the possible
directory and pull them to suneo based
just unzip them so strips the GZ just
five cinder their first name and
practices which are with the size of the
let's follow and then we say here this
we expect another part of the input
we're going to get something like this
now this is our first stream that there
is no CID that we got from earlier you
can see right here right but the other
two cars are also in here and it shows
you would this would almost nine
megabytes of data how they are formed
into one large bag with three rows and
again we can see that there are actually
no duplications here at all because 42
is 36 plus 6 so everything just went
into that store and you can see that now
your bag has for a perfect idea of you
just buy stuff in now the best part is
that and the reason is to exists is to
be able to quantify what does it what do
you gain by using different savage drink
means different in techniques and how
all of this will affect this number so
what we're going to do we are going to
run the very same command but we are
going to add this is not actually a
moment that will be there in the final
version but just give an idea what this
is this is finding repeated ramified so
if you have 32 more bytes or more or
spaces or more it will take it as an
additional cut point in addition to any
other track to replace and the result of
this is that so we have the bag is much
larger than it was before
but because we cut at much smarter
places our actual deduplication of this
goes down to 10 megabytes is also a
terabyte and because we have more plans
to link we have $15,000 versus only 42
knows obviously trusts
more to link them in if 94 link lots as
opposed to six so this is a little bit
larger but at the end it all adds up to
only four megabytes in your data store I
suppose almost an amazing story and of
course again from Tigers marginal case
and this is the gist of what this tool
does it obviously cares huge it is a
huge help list in fact it is larger help
this and this is not not actually the
final version but again what our
research on chicken is on how to better
fit that in your data store Eskimos and
if I have any questions some can't wait
for this to be actually think that
community can start like playing and
experimenting absolutely awesome will
for sure have a longer aquifers weekly
dedicated just to that cool I don't
think we have any specific questions
let's move to the next demo we are
running out of time
yeah would you like to choose a demo or
do you have a preference I have maybe
that maybe let's start with quick and we
can do the neck remaining ones in like
four or five weeks on the next quick is
nice quick
all right let's see if I can share my
screen let's just do that desktop do you
okay okay cool
this is a quick talk I gave at the
recent IP first team week so I haven't
changed the icons or anything but here
we are
JAAA slid p2p quick can everyone see
first of all what I'm showing him on my
screen yeah yes
so donk okay quick wait a minute
wait wait wait wait wait what is quick
quick is a UDP based transport it's
still a draft it's not finished
it's UDP but it has the guarantees of
TCP and it also has TLS built in one
important part about quick is that it
allows for out of all the packets and
that eliminates the head-of-line
blocking problem that we find with HTTP
HTTP 2 there is a implementation of
quick in no js' is being developed right
now as we speak
it is being developed by James Snell and
that is the URL to the fork of nodejs
where it's being developed it is being
sponsored by protocol labs and near
forum so that's super awesome there is
if you're interested in this at all
which you should because it's super
exciting
then go and read the blog post there was
a recent blog post by James and it's a
really good explainer of what's what's
coming what's there and what to expect
and what problems it solves so go and
take a look at that anyway though the
p2p quick in j/s wah can it be a reality
well let me tell you I have not made
much progress but it's under way I what
I did was I I cloned the nodejs quick
repo I figured out how to compile node
we've quick enabled which was more
difficult than we should have been but
all I needed to do was add a flag and
unfortunately at the time I think it's
been documented now but there was no
documentation no it's just like where is
the quake but anyway I got it working
and then I managed to like look up a
really quick transport and Lib TTP
transport in JavaScript and it is and
you can see here that it listens on a
port and I've got two transporters that
I it gets to connect to each other and
they just sent a quick a quick hello
well to each other which is super cool
the interesting part about this is that
they are connecting using TLS certs that
I found in the mo GS repo yeah that's
okay I think I do believe that they know
that they are there and they are for
testing so that's fine but the next part
of this was to create a way for because
we don't we're not going to use the
nodejs
testing certs in production and what
we're going to do is create a change a
peer ID our own peer ID into a
certificate and so what I started on was
doing that conversion so I've got a
function that takes a period Lippe TPP
Rd and it converts it into a certificate
and the kind of interesting part about
this is the so this screenshot just
shows this certificate that I saved out
and I read it in with open SSL it seems
to be valid so it's looks like it's
working and so the interesting part of
this is that when I was doing this
though I found it interesting you
probably don't find it very interesting
but I found that this they've got this o
ID thing and they've got extensions to
the certificates that you can add and if
you plug that number into this 1990s
website then you get look protocol labs
work is rolled and so I found that
interesting he's just there um so that's
that next step is to do is the other
side of that where we take a base
certificate and then get a peer ID from
so we'll get there eventually but that's
about as far as I've come and if you are
interested in it then go and check out
this repo is a github.com allen chaw /jr
slippy to be quick and
go and like open an issue or if you want
to help out then then send a peon
something under but I'm gonna try and
work on it in my spare time as I said
I've not had a lot recently so it's been
a bit slow but in the future
quick for Jas and I think that would be
really cool because well firstly one
thing that I thought would be cool which
might be puff faster is that we do a lot
of multiplexing and we do it in JSON
whereas in quick multiplexing is
built-in so you can
so hopefully or probably multiplexing in
Sealand in quick might be a little bit
faster than it is in raw j/s so we're
yet to see if that's a that's gonna be a
good thing or not but I thought that
would be interesting to find out at
least so that's Libby to be quick
that's as far as it's got that's all I
have to say thank you very much for
listening
awesome thank you so much for being so
quick however there will be even quicker
demo / lighting talk from Dietrich you
got quarter of a minute I'll do it in
the next time that's what I'm trying to
start rolling backwards cool all right
we will continue in four weeks with
lightning talks or five weeks next week
we are back to regular schedule I
believe we got we will be listening
about fury updates so Alam is our new
host starting next week what I'm saying
I mean yes yeah now you know